1. What is the definition of Hive? What is the present version of Hive? 

Ans-Hive is a distributed, fault-tolerant data warehouse system that enables analytics at a massive scale.
    And present version is 4.0

2. Is Hive suitable to be used for OLTP systems? Why?

Ans-No Hive is not suitable for OLTP. Because Hive does not provide insert and update at row level.

3. How is HIVE different from RDBMS? Does hive support ACID 
transactions. If not then give the proper reason.

Ans- RDBMS:
        It is type of database management system which is specifically designed for relational databases. 
     RDBMS is a subset of DBMS.
     Hive:
       Hive is a data warehouse software system that provides data query and analysis.
       Hive support Acid transaction
     

4. Explain the hive architecture and the different components of a Hive 
architecture?

Ans-Execute Query – 
          Interface of the Hive such as Command Line or Web user interface delivers query to the driver to execute. 
          In this, UI calls the execute interface to the driver such as ODBC or JDBC. 
    Get Plan – 
          Driver designs a session handle for the query and transfer the query to the compiler to make execution plan. 
    Get Metadata – 
          In this, the compiler transfers the metadata request to any database and the compiler gets the necessary metadata from the metastore. 
    Send Metadata – 
          Metastore transfers metadata as an acknowledgment to the compiler. 
    Send Plan – 
          Compiler communicating with driver with the execution plan made by the compiler to execute the query. 
    Execute Plan – 
          Execute plan is sent to the execution engine by the driver. 
          Execute Job,Job Done,Dfs operation.
    Fetch Results – 
          Fetching results from the driver to the user interface (UI).
    Send Results – 
          Result is transferred to the execution engine from the driver. 
5. Mention what Hive query processor does? And Mention what are the 
components of a Hive query processor?

Ans-Componenets are:-
    Parse and Semantic Analysis.
    Metadata Layer.
    Type Interfaces.
    Sessions.
    Map/Reduce Execution Engine. 
    Plan Components. 
    Hive Function Framework. 
    Tools.

6. What are the three different modes in which we can operate Hive?

Ans-Embedded Metastore.,Local Metastore.,Remote Metastore.

7. Features and Limitations of Hive.

Ans-Features:-
    1)Supported Computing Engine
    2)Framework
    3)Easy To Code	
    4)Supported data structures	
    5)Supports ETL
    6)Helps in processing unstructured data
    Limitations:-
    1)Does not support OLTP	
    2)Doesn’t support subqueries	
    3)Doesn’t support subqueries	
    4)Transaction processing is not supported	

8. How to create a Database in HIVE?

Ans-CREATE DATABASE|SCHEMA [IF NOT EXISTS] <database name>

9. How to create a table in HIVE?

Ans-CREATE [TEMPORARY] [EXTERNAL] TABLE [IF NOT EXISTS] [db_name.] table_name

    [(col_name data_type [COMMENT col_comment], ...)]
    [COMMENT table_comment]
    [ROW FORMAT row_format]
    [STORED AS file_format]

10.What do you mean by describe and describe extended and describe 
formatted with respect to database and table

Ans-

11.How to skip header rows from a table in Hive?

Ans-Assume name of CSV file is sample_2.csv which is present at HDFS location 'bdp/rmhd/ip/sample_2.csv' ...
     Step 1: Create Table. ...
     Step 2: Remove Header. ...

12.What is a hive operator? What are the different types of hive operators?

Ans-Apache Hive provides various Built-in operators for data operations to be implemented on the tables present inside Apache Hive warehouse. 
    Hive operators are used for mathematical operations on operands.
    Following are types of operatos:-
  
Operators Precedences.
      Relational Operators.
      Arithmetic Operators.
      Logical Operators.
      String Operators.

13.Explain about the Hive Built-In Functions

Ans-
14. Write hive DDL and DML commands.

Ans-DDL Comands:-
    CREATE,SHOW,DESCRIBE,USE,DROP,ALTER,TRUNCATE.
    DML Commands:-
     
15.Explain about SORT BY, ORDER BY, DISTRIBUTE BY and 
CLUSTER BY in Hive.

16.Difference between "Internal Table" and "External Table" and Mention 
when to choose “Internal Table” and “External Table” in Hive?

17.Where does the data of a Hive table get stored?

Ans-Hive stores its database and table metadata in a metastore, 
    which is a database or file backed store that enables easy data abstraction and discovery.
18.Is it possible to change the default location of a managed table?

19.What is a metastore in Hive? What is the default database provided by 
Apache Hive for metastore?

Ans-Hive Metastore is a component in Hive that stores the catalog of the system. 
    That contains the metadata about Hive create columns, Hive table creation, and partitions.
20.Why does Hive not store metadata information in HDFS?

Ans-Because HDFS is slow, and due to it's distributed and dynamic nature.

22.What is the difference between dynamic partitioning and static 
partitioning?

Ans:-While the system is up and running, static partitions are continuously present. 
     Dynamic partitions are created and activated only as needed.
23.How do you check if a particular partition exists?

Ans-By following way:-
    desc mytable partition (...)
    show table extended like mytable partition (...)

24.How can you stop a partition form being queried?

Ans:-By using the ENABLE OFFLINE clause with ALTER TABLE atatement.

25.Why do we need buckets? How Hive distributes the rows into buckets?

Ans:-Useful when dealing with large datasets that may need to be segregated into clusters for more efficient 
     management and to be able to perform join queries with other large datasets.

26.In Hive, how can you enable buckets?

Ans:-partition=true property

27.How does bucketing help in the faster execution of queries?

28.How to optimise Hive Performance? Explain in very detail.

29. What is the use of Hcatalog?

Ans-HCatalog is a tool that allows you to access Hive metastore tables within Pig, 
    Spark SQL, and/or custom MapReduce applications.

30. Explain about the different types of join in Hive.

Ans-LEFT OUTER JOIN:-
    The HiveQL LEFT OUTER JOIN returns all the rows from the left table, even if there are no matches in the right table. This means, if the ON clause matches 0 (zero) records in the right table,
    the JOIN still returns a row in the result, but with NULL in each column from the right table.
    
RIGHT OUTER JOIN:-
    The HiveQL RIGHT OUTER JOIN returns all the rows from the right table, even if there are no matches in the left table. If the ON clause matches 0 (zero) records in the left table, 
    the JOIN still returns a row in the result, but with NULL in each column from the left table.
31.Is it possible to create a Cartesian join between 2 tables, using Hive?

Ans-Yes.

32.Explain the SMB Join in Hive?

Ans-SMB is a join performed on bucket tables that have the same sorted, bucket, and join condition columns. 
    It reads data from both bucket tables and performs common joins (map and reduce triggered) on the bucket tables.

